---
layout: post
title: March 12
date:   2015-03-12
---

The old campus bell tolled on March, 10, 1923, marking the death of Louis Oliver Lehman, Class of 1901. This beloved young president of Eureka College had died of typhoid fever at age 45. Lehman came from Sterling, and as a student was a member of the first basketball team organized at the college. After graduation, he was a pastor at area churches and then was named president of the college in 1919, just as the Division of Higher Education of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) was starting a massive campaign - the “Men and Millions Campaign” - to build endowment at the several colleges and universities that were related to the denomination. Each institution was given a quota of funding that was deemed necessary to keep the school viable and sustainable. It was generally understood that those schools that could not meet the funding levels might not remain in operation.

President Lehman was told that he had to raise $400,000 by 1923 in order to meet the quota. This was a tremendous amount of money, especially in 1920 dollars, and the prospect of raising such an amount during a period of burgeoning economic depression in America's farming heartland was especially daunting. Lehman traveled for three years meeting with prospective donors and presenting the case for why supporters should help build the endowment of Eureka College. Lehman also made the bold decision to seek support from the Rockefeller Foundation - a move that many believed was unrealistic. In the end, the decision was a brilliant one as the Rockefeller Foundation pledged $135,000 to support Eureka College's endowment.

The efforts took a toll on the president’s health, however. Six weeks after his death, Eureka College announced that it had exceeded its "Men and Millions" quota by more than $45,000. Louis Oliver Lehman was recognized as a martyr to the institution who gave his all that Eureka College might survive and prosper. The Board of Trustees said of Lehman, "His unbounded faith, his high ideals and his quiet determination were the source of constant inspiration and encouragement to us seeking to establish the college on a more stable basis."
