---
layout: post
title: March 19
date:   2015-03-19
---

On March 19, 1912, Eureka College launched a campaign to raise money to construct a gymnasium. The success of that drive would lead to the construction of Pritchard Gymnasium (now Pritchard Fine and Performing Arts Center), which was completed by 1915. The construction of a gymnasium was one of the first signs that marked the maturation, and the permanence, of Eureka College. The creation of the building, like the establishment of Melick Library in 1967, marked the establishment of a building dedicated to a specific purpose in the life of the college.

On March 18, 1926, the E Tribe organization was established at Eureka College as an association for students who had lettered in sports. The group was created by legendary coach Ralph McKinzie, Class of 1923, and it represents one of the first ways that he left his mark on the athletic program at Eureka College. E Tribe still exists as an active organization in the life of the college. The group continues to recognize the accomplishments of Eureka College students as scholar-athletes. Members and alumni are involved in annual fundraising efforts to support the intercollegiate athletic program that has played such an integral part of the history and tradition of the institution.

On March 21, 1994, two historic events took place. First, it was the opening day for the Donald B. Cerf College Center. The official dedication for the new building would take place in May 1994, but as fourth term classes began in 1994 the new building became operational.
That evening, the Eureka College community gathered in the gymnasium in Reagan Center for a very special homecoming and pep rally event as the Eureka College men's basketball team, the reigning 1994 NAIA Division II national champions, returned to the campus.
