---
layout: post
title: March 26
date:   2015-03-26
---


Roger Burrus Dickinson died on March 28, 1911. Fifty years prior to his death, Dickinson had been enrolled as a student at Eureka College when the Civil War began. He was among the young men who gathered beneath the "Recruiting Elm" and he, along with his brother Charles, eventually joined Company G of the 17th Illinois Infantry. In an impassioned letter written two days after the Battle of Shiloh, Dickinson informed his family of Charlie's injury. Dickinson wrote, "He needs better care than he can have here," and encouraged assistance from home - "I want you to come . . . several of the citizens ought to come." Charles did survive. In subsequent years, Roger Dickinson returned to Eureka where he became a businessman and civic leader. In the late 1890s he established the Dickinson Canning Factory on the north end of town. It would later be sold to the Libby Corporation in the 1920s. Roger was the grandfather of Burrus Dickinson, who was a president of Eureka College and the namesake of Burrus Dickinson Hall.

On March 27, 1993, groundbreaking ceremonies were held to mark the beginning of construction of the Donald B. Cerf College Center. The Cerf Center has had great impact not only upon the life of Eureka College but also the community of Eureka and beyond. The building was designed to house the Ronald Reagan Exhibit; a 400-seat auditorium; multipurpose breakout rooms that could be used for meetings or dining events; "The Burgoo" - a campus center; and much-needed office space for Student Programs and Services. The building was constructed in one year and opened to the public on March 21, 1994.

Fun Fact: On March 24, 1997, Frances McDormand was awarded the Oscar for Best Actress at the Academy Awards ceremony for her role in the film "Fargo." McDormand won the Oscar for her memorable portrayal of Marge Gunderson, a pregnant police chief investigating three murders. How is this event related to Eureka College? Frances McDormand is the daughter of Vernon W. McDormand from the Eureka College Class of 1953.
