---
layout: post
title: February 2
date:   2015-02-02
---

Jonathan Tressler died on Feb. 2, 1853. This young German emigrant had settled in the community of Walnut Grove sometime in the 1840s. Like his father before him, he had learned the craft of carpentry, and it was by this trade that he made a living in his newly adopted home. In 1847 Jonathan Tressler constructed the very first Christian Church in Walnut Grove (at the current site of the Civil War monument in Olio Cemetery), and the following year he constructed the Walnut Grove Seminary - the very first manifestation of what grew to become Eureka College.

At his death, he left his estate to the Walnut Grove Academy. This donation was the first bequest received by the institution, and it marked the start of the endowment fund.
On Feb. 5, 1900, the Eureka College Board of Trustees accepted the resignation of President J.N. Hardin whose administration as president had begun in 1896. His tenure was characterized by declining enrollment and financial hardship. In more than a mere chronological sense, his was the last administration of the 19th century. Several of his successors - most notably Presidents Hieronymus, Pritchard and Lehman - would provide a sense of new life and renewed vision for the institution.

Royal Humbert was born on Feb. 3, 1910. Named after the legendary Christian missionary Royal Dye, it seems natural that Royal Humbert would eventually become a noted theologian and professor of religion and philosophy at Eureka College. He joined the faculty in 1948 and taught until his retirement in the mid-1970s. His wife, Lois, joined the faculty in 1954 as professor of piano and organ and director of the hand bell choir.

Professor Humbert was known for being a rigorous teacher and a productive scholar. During his tenure at Eureka College he produced “A Compend of Alexander Campbell's Theology with Commentary in the Form of Critical and Historical Footnotes” edited by Royal Humbert (St. Louis: Bethany Press, 1961).
