---
layout: post
title: June 4
date:   2015-06-04
---

On June 1, 1936, Clyde Lyon resigned his position as president of Eureka College. He had served in that capacity since 1930.

President Lyon's resignation followed the decision by the North Central Association to deny re-accreditation by that body. This decision was largely based upon the devastating effects that the Great Depression had upon the financially strapped institution. Eureka College would continue to operate as a non-accredited institution from 1936-1962.

In his letter of resignation, Lyon wrote, "The future of Eureka College will be determined by the ability of its leadership to secure funds&hellip;I have not the ability to get such income or to organize the campaign through which it might be raised."

<hr>

Several events occurred on June 6:

In 1865 Company A of the 86th Illinois Volunteer Infantry was mustered out of service in the Civil War. This company, led by Captain Jo Major, is the company that is recognized at the Civil War monument in Eureka's Olio Township Cemetery.

<hr>

In 1872 Eureka College held commencement exercises that were marked by an unexpected spring storm that brought a total of 10 inches of rainfall to the region. Reports of the deluge indicate that portions of the campus were flooded, and dirt roads were impassable. Several guests were unable to leave the campus due to the weather and spent the night in campus buildings.

<hr>

In 1889 a chapter of the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) was organized at Eureka College. It was one of the first such chapters to be established at a college or university in the United States.
